# Cybersecurity Threat Landscape (Part 2 - Akamai)
---
In this part, you should primarily use the Akamai_Security_Year_in_Review_2019 and Akamai State of the Internet/Security plus independent research to answer the below questions.

---

1. DDOS attack events from January 2019 to September 2019 largely targeted which industry? 
- DDoS attack events from January 2019 to September 2019 largely targeted the Gaming industry with close to 3,500 attacks.


2. Almost 50% of unique targets for DDoS attacks from January 2019- September 2019 largely targeted which industry? 
- Almost 50% of unique targets for DDoS attacks from January 2019 to September 2019 largely targeted the Financial Services industry.


3. Which companies are the top phishing targets, according to Akamai? 
- According to Akamai’s monitoring, Microsoft, PayPal, DHL, Dropbox, DocuSign, and LinkedIn were the top phishing targets.


4. What is credential stuffing? 
- Where attackers use a list of credentials obtained from other breaches in an attempt to access user accounts on other servers or websites. This is possible due to users re-using the same credentials across different websites.


5. Which country is the number one source of credential abuse attacks? Which country is number 2?
- The United States is the number one source of credential abuse attacks with 25,393,327,336 malicious logins, followed by Russia in second place with 6,114,186,048 malicious logins. However if only observing gaming data, Russia is the number 1 source.


6. Which country is the number one source of web application attacks? Which country is number 2?
- The United States is the number one source of web application attacks at 1,434,231,212 attacks. Russia is number two at 1,093,219,355 attacks.


7. In Akamai’s State of the Internet report, it refers to a possible DDoS team that the company thought was affecting a customer in Asia (starts on page 11). 
- Describe what was happening.
- What did the team believe the source of the attack was? 
- What did the team actually discover? 
    - In 2018, a customer of Akamai had received an unusually large amount of traffic to one of their URLs, reaching 875,000 requests per second. This almost resulted in an overflow of the database which Akamai uses for logging traffic.
    - It was believed that it was a major DDoS attack as the features coincided with those of a DDoS attack. They had found that there were over 4 billion requests coming from 15,582 IP addresses.
    - Upon analysis, the Security Incident Response Team had concluded that the flood of traffic was generated by a Windows COM Object - WinHttpRequest. 


8. What is an example of a performance issue with bot traffic? 
- Bot traffic can result in a slowness of websites which leads to frustrated customers.


9. Known-good bots are bots that perform useful or helpful tasks, and not do anything malicious to sites or servers. What are the main categories of known-good bots. 
- Search Engine Crawlers
- Web Archives
- Search Engine Optimization, Audience Analytics, and Marketing Service
- Site Monitoring Services
- Content Aggregators


10. What are two evasion techniques that malicious bots use? 
- In order to avoid detection, Malicious bots may use techniques such as changing the IP address or altering the user agent/HTTP header values. By changing the IP address, they are able to mask their origin and/or bypass rate limitations. By altering the user agent/HTTP header values, they are able to impersonate other browsers or mobile applications.
